[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Years ago, my husband
and I spent 10 years living
in the South Pacific on a
tiny island called Kwajalein.
Kwajalein was about 2,500
miles southwest of Hawaii.
And it was a lush
tropical setting.
Kwajalein was surrounded
by crystal clear waters.
The island itself was
about a half mile wide
and five miles long.
There were no private cars.
We rode bikes everywhere.
And there was time to stop
and talk to your neighbor,
sit on the beach to
watch the sunset,
or be alone with your thoughts.
We had one small grocery
store, called Surfway.
And it was open for a
few hours in the morning.
We pay for our
groceries, and then we'd
write our house
number on the bags
and leave them in a cart
outside the front door.
Delivery guys would
load them onto a truck
and hand deliver them to
our house, placing them
all the way inside the door.
Sometimes, they arrive before
I could pedal home on my bike.
It was a simple lifestyle.
And there weren't very
many choices to make.
What is it that
makes people choose
a different path, a
road less traveled?
I want you to meet
a few healers who
have my admiration for
following their choices
and the unique paths
that they've chosen.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Dr. Tony, it's great to be
able to be here with you,
talk with you, and come pick
your brain a little bit.
So I appreciate you
sitting down with me.
>> Thank you.
Thank you for your
kind invitation.
>> So I'm interested in your
experience regarding coming
into medicine and medical
school for you and what it means
for you to be a healer.
What's that definition for you?
>> Maybe I can start my
description of what it is to be
a healer from being a child.
And at the age of
about 10, 11 years old,
my mom took me to
our regular doctor.
And I had a chest cold.
And the doctor gave
me a prescription.
I looked at it.
And I had 1, 2, 3,
4, 5 medications.
And as a 10, 11-year-old,
didn't really
understand what they were for.
So I asked the doctor, hey,
doctor, what are these for?
And he said, they are for
what you have, so take them,
and walked away.
I followed him down the hallway.
And I asked him, doctor,
can you please tell me
what these are for?
And he said, I already told you,
so take them, and walked away.
At that moment, I
looked down the hallway.
I saw my mom.
I saw a trash can.
I walked up to my mom,
ripped up the prescription,
and threw it in the trash can.
So I believe this
set the stage for me
later on in my
life when I became
a physician, a
healer, that I didn't
want to be like that guy.
Because I didn't see healing
qualities in him, right?
So for me to be a healer means
when we use all of our senses,
the knowledge that we
gain in medical school--
which that's another story,
right-- the knowledge
we've gained in medical school,
and then use your heart.
Use that inner sense that--
we could call it karma,
we could call it intuition,
we could call it gut feeling.
I like to call it, you know,
the Holy Spirit guiding me.
And so when you do
that and you realize
that medicine and
healing is an art.
It's not a prescription
and, here, take this.
So healing, in summary, for
me, is addressing the person,
taking care of the person
in a holistic way, where
we not only work on the
physical, of course,
but also the spiritual
and the mental aspect.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Originally, when
I went into medicine,
I was really following
someone else's dream.
So I'm not sure
that was actually
the right career choice for me.
And after I got into
conventional medical school,
I found that I really
didn't like it.
I didn't like, so much,
what I was learning.
And I really didn't
like what I saw
going on in the hospital
with the food they
were feeding people.
And I really don't
know what I thought
it was going to be all about.
But it was just so many drugs,
just repeated, antibiotics
and steroids.
And I realized that I
just didn't like it.
So at a certain point,
I took a hiatus.
I actually took a year
off of medical school
to do some soul
searching and figure out
if I wanted to continue
in this career.
And that's when I
started investigating
all kinds of alternatives,
from chiropractic
to midwifery to nutrition.
And I really researched
a lot of things
and just had a glimpse of
homeopathy at that time.
And I didn't really know what
I would do when I went back.
But I made a commitment
that I would go back, finish
my training, and then I would
do something natural, holistic,
or alternative in the future.
So I kind of set my path.
And then I had to get through
the rest of the training
before I could actually become
a holistic pediatrician.
The reason I decided
to go into pediatrics
is because I was
really frustrated
with every other specialty
that was available.
Internal medicine, it
was just all about drugs.
Surgery, at the time,
was kind of dominated
by male chauvinists and
obstetrics, gynecology as well.
Psychiatry was all about drugs.
And they were so
mean to the patients.
So I figured, I'll
go into pediatrics.
You're starting out
with healthy pregnancy,
you're trying to
promote good nutrition,
breastfeeding, and raising
up the children healthy.
At least that's what I
thought it was about.
And for me, that's what
it's always been about.
Conventional Western
medicine does
a great job for emergencies
and acute problems.
But for treating
chronic conditions,
it's really, in my opinion,
pretty much of a disaster area.
So I wanted to find some
method of treating children
and adults, for
that matter, as well
that I felt comfortable with.
And I discovered homeopathy.
And that became my primary
treatment modality.
As you know, you can
do so much with it,
treating acute conditions,
coughs, colds, vomiting,
diarrhea, ear infections,
urinary tract infections,
you name it, and then getting
into chronic prescribing, which
is more involved, more
difficult, more complex.
But you can really
transform people's lives.
So I think getting in
to HP, Homeoprophylaxis,
was sort of a natural
outgrowth of that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What do you think happens
to a person's family,
their community, when they
choose an alternative method
and they start becoming
empowered by making choices
on their own and not
listening to the consensus
for their medical treatment?
>> And that's interesting.
Because when patients decide
to do alternative therapies,
it's sort of a challenge.
Because first, the
conventional world
will pooh-pooh a lot of the
non-approved, conventional
therapies, right?
Approved, meaning by the
system, by the medical system.
And so that word
Fear comes into play.
And if you don't do this or do
that, then you're going to die.
I mean, I heard,
and I'm sure you
have also, when people have told
us that, that their doctor told
them, if you don't do
what I'm telling you,
you're going to die, and
it's going to be miserable
and so forth.
So fear is a big
component of that.
And no one should make a
decision of a health path
or journey out of fear.
Because then that's
not healthy, you're
going in there for
the wrong reasons.
So we have to separate
that fear and eliminate it
from a decision-making process.
Secondly, the family members.
They're well-intended.
And they want the best for you,
friends, loved ones, family
members.
But also, they might not be
in the same space as you are.
So we had a patient here at
Hope4Cancer, a breast cancer
patient, extensive metastases
in the liver and lung.
And she came here after
failing conventional therapy.
So a year later, yes, a
year later, I asked her,
what was the biggest
change you had to make
when you went back home?
She said, I had to
tell my best friend
of 25 years in a
loving, caring way
that we had to separate
from each other.
And the reason for that was this
loving, caring longtime friend
who happened to also be a
nurse was a toxic relationship
for the patient.
She loved her.
But she said, well, why don't
you go in a clinical trial,
you should do more chemo.
So she wasn't
respecting the decision
that the patient had made to
look at alternative therapies.
She wasn't respecting
her choice.
And so, the patient had,
when she left Hope4Cancer
after her initial stay,
she asked her best friend
that, you know, they
needed to separate.
And guess what?
About a year after that, the
patient was at the clinic
for follow up.
And I happened to be there.
And I saw that she
was with a companion.
And that was the nurse.
That was her best friend.
So now things have
turned around.
The nurse saw, hey, you
know, she's doing so well.
And now that relationship
was not toxic.
So please be aware that
toxic relationship.
And these are tough
decisions, right?
This is a 25-year-old
relationship and friendship.
So that's important.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When did I feel called?
I had devoted my life
to building a family.
I also had a degree in dance.
And I was looking towards
a Fulbright scholarship
and a master's
degree in Ireland,
where I would study
ethnochoreology.
At the same time, a pediatrician
saw my son for asthma
and sent me to a
homeopath for treatment.
When I saw how effective
homeopathy was for his asthma,
that was the fork
in the road for me.
We pulled up stakes and moved
2,000 miles across the country
for me to spend the next four
years embarking on an education
in homeopathic medicine.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What led me to study
homeopathy after many years
of practicing allopathic
medicine was a growing level
of frustration.
As a medical student
and even as a resident,
I just took in
everything I was taught.
And I thought,
this is the truth.
Then once I got
out into practice,
I started to see some things
that didn't always jive.
But one of the biggest issues
was that over the years,
things would change.
Something that I thought was
a safe drug, all of a sudden,
there would be problems with it.
And another thing that
was disconcerting to me
is as they started adding
more and more vaccines
into the vaccine
schedule, I didn't always
see the need for those vaccines.
The hardest part about
my homeopathic training
was going back to my allopathic
practice on Monday morning.
Yeah.
So the way I did my
homeopathic training
was at Northwestern
Academy in Minneapolis.
And once a month, I would
go there for four days
to study homeopathy.
And that long weekend was
such a breath of fresh air.
That's really what kept me
going during those years.
The hardest part was
I had this new way
of thinking about things
that really made so much
more sense to me than
the way that I'd been
taught to practice medicine.
So the hardest part
about it, really,
was still being in that world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Yes, I felt called.
I didn't heed the
call for a long time.
But once I did, I found,
really, the power in homeopathy,
not just in my own experience--
that wasn't enough--
I needed to see how
it worked in people.
And I got some training and
applied that training and saw
people get well and more people
get well, and then thought,
I can't treat everybody, I
can't take care of everyone
who needs care.
So that's when the decision
to create a school started.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The school started in 1995.
So we've been at this 22
years, graduated 11 classes.
Not large numbers compared
to a large university.
But almost everyone is
practicing and helping people.
The school is an
accredited school.
Certainly, running a school
on a shoestring budget
is a challenge.
And the thing
about homeopathy is
these people who
work in homeopathy
will work hard for it.
Because they see it as being
a true form of healing.
But probably the most wonderful
thing for me, as a teacher,
has been to wander
down the street,
go into a club or a coffee
house, coffee shop, or a party,
strike up a conversation
with somebody,
and they find out what I do.
They said, oh, your
former student, so-and-so,
saved my family's life.
I can't tell you how
gratifying that is.
And that keeps me going
through the hard work
to really get a sense
of how many people
are impacted by this medicine.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When I decided to go
to homeopathy school,
I decided I was going to get
the best education I possibly
could.
And I got myself a list of
all the homeopathic schools
in the country.
And I started
calling each of them
and asking to speak
with the instructors
and asking if they could give
me names of several students.
And I would call the
students and talk to them.
And through that
whole process, I
alighted on Northwestern
Academy in Minneapolis.
And the biggest thing
that was so different
there was the clinic experience.
So it's a four-year program.
And I think it's still
pretty much the same
that it was when I attended
back in the early 2000s.
The first two years
were in the classroom.
And then the second
two years were
spent mostly in the clinic,
where we would actually
be seeing patients and
working in conjunction
with the instructors
to analyze the cases.
>> I knew I had made
the right decision.
But the fear was
there, because I
felt a tremendous
responsibility to my clients.
And my sensitivity to their
pain was overwhelming.
So I had to learn how
to separate myself
and to care less in order to
help them and be objective.
Over time, you learn to
step out of the equation
and allow people the freedom
to heal on their own.
No one can fix any other person.
It's a matter of being
present with a person,
caring about them, seeing
them, and understanding
them enough so that
they're inspired to heal.
And it's through that contact,
that close understanding that
helps other people to heal.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In my life, those people who
have loved me unconditionally
have been the most
healing in my life.
I have an inherent
belief in people
that they have the capacity
to move towards perfection.
And because of
that, I enjoy being
part of that journey with them.
So the decision
to make this film
was the understanding
that I only
have so many hours in a day, I
can only reach so many people.
And media is something
that reaches many people.
And if I can do that, then
it's worth all the resources
that I have.
It's worth my time.
It's worth everything I have
to give in order to reach
the greatest number of people.
I don't get a lot
of sleep these days,
because I feel a tremendous
responsibility for what
I'm doing.
And I reached a point where
I realized that, this is not
mine, this is not up to me.
I have to pass this along
to a greater power, whatever
you want to call it,
to drive the bus.
Because there are some
things going on in the world
that can't continue.
And change needs to happen.
So I'm here with my resources,
with my skills, my abilities.
I'm willing to contribute
what I have to contribute.
But I can't drive the bus.
So I need direction
from the universe.
Direction came for me very
abruptly in January of 2019
with my cancer diagnosis.
Sometimes we think
we are choosing.
But life chooses us.
I was initially
filled with fear.
Despite years of teaching
others not to have fear,
it was humbling.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Well, that's very important
to know that, first of all,
there is a choice,
and you can choose.
And knowing that sets you apart.
It breaks that paradigm that we
sit in in conventional society,
if you will.
So first of all, if someone is
given a diagnosis, whether it's
cancer or any chronic
disease, autoimmune disease,
anything with immunity, we just
have to know, be still first,
do your research, and then
ask for that discernment,
that wisdom.
And then follow your gut.
Because you know, us doctors,
we think we know a lot.
And we maybe do know a lot.
But there is a lot more
that we don't know.
So partnering with a team of
doctors that can work together
and give us those
different options.
And ultimately, it's
for the individual
to choose what path they want
to embark in and with what team,
because it is a journey.
It's not just a person who
has a disease or the patient.
It's the group that
is going together
in this healing journey.
>> So, Dr. Tony, you possess
a rare and precious quality
of humility, which we don't
see very often in the world.
And my question to you is,
what signs would someone
look for in choosing
their team that indicates
there is knowledge,
there's humility,
there's wisdom, all
of those qualities
that make a good healer?
>> Well, first we have
to know that they do have
the education, that they
have a good reputation within
the medical community.
And it's also good
if you know someone
that has been to this doctor
or this healing place.
So references are good.
And have an interview with them.
And by the way, patients can
fire their doctor, right?
So have an interview with them,
especially when someone is
dealing with a chronic disease.
Because chronicity
means long term.
So there's very few opportunity
to have an overnight healing.
It can happen, of course, right?
When we raise our consciousness
and do many things,
healing can happen
in a split second.
However, usually it
entails a lifestyle change
and a process of the journey.
So have a team that
is willing to travel
that journey with you.
For example, here
at Hope4Cancer,
when our patients come
for three or four weeks,
this is intense treatment.
The nurses, the medical
staff, the overall staff
is walking with the patient.
But what happens when they go
back home to their reality,
to their environment,
to their home, right?
This is where we, as
Hope4Cancer, as a team,
need to be there for them and
help them walk in that path.
So that's very important.
And the same thing,
if someone is
going to a medical doctor
for a consultation,
it doesn't stop there, right?
It translates to what
they do at home as well.
>> When I made my choice
to come to Hope4Cancer,
I was confident in my choice
but faced lots of questions
and worries before I got here.
Once I arrived, the
spirit that everybody
works in at the clinic, the
welcoming, supportive, kind
outreach they give to all
the patients was amazing.
And I cried hard when I left.
Because I knew that I was
leaving that environment
and going back home.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Once upon a time ago, I was
nearly died by colitis, yeah?
Bleeding blood a lot.
I was 38 kilograms, it was.
Yeah, I was dying at that time.
But that time, I wonder why
I too much working hard.
Because I had the belief that
I had to work for the company.
Because I got money
from a company,
I have to give the loyalty
of my life to 100% them.
So working, working,
working so hard.
Where come from such
kind of an idea.
My mother thought that
you have to work hard.
Humans should be working
hard in order to get money.
OK, do you understand?
Even women work hard.
This is my mother.
My mother is so
hard, like a soldier.
So she hasn't got any
love, softness, kindness--
Toroko, come.
[NON-ENGLISH] Never.
Always, she hitting me.
Not a hard worker.
Also, if I not get a 100% mark
in mathematics, she hit me.
So therefore, such kind of
teaching from mother, life
was very difficult, Toroko.
In order to overcome, you have
to do so hard study, hard work.
This kind of wrong
information, forget it.
This is your information,
your thinking, not me.
So I overcome this one.
Since then, I'm so healthy.
Mother, don't tell me anymore.
Because I want to
be my own life.
I have my own soul.
So my body, my heart,
also, my soul, this is me.
Not belong to you.
Thank you for making this body.
However, my soul, my
heart is nothing with you.
No, no.
it's me!
[MUSIC PLAYING]
My life is I want to
get my life myself.
If you do this, your immune
system so up, because God
help you.
And then I become a homeopath.
I love this job.
This is my fate
to be a homeopath.
So thank you for my
ulcerative colitis.
Through the disease, I
met a man, Martin Miles,
who is my homeopath.
He's dead seven years ago.
But he is a nice man.
So kind.
He listened, what's
the problem in my life?
One hour-- he listened one
hour without any disturbing.
He listened to me--
oh, I have a hard time.
Listen, I have
been hit by mother.
He listened to everything.
I'm so pleased, this one.
None of the people listen
to me, even five minutes.
So therefore, homeopathy
job is a so great job.
Tell me your life.
I will listen from heart.
So that's the kind of a
job I wanted to have it.
So I'm so happy now.
>> That's beautiful.
That's a beautiful explanation.
That's real immunity.
>> Good.
Real immunity.
That's right.
Be yourself.
This is immunity.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When parents go to
conventional pediatricians,
and their views are being
trashed or not listened
to or they're being denigrated
for their belief systems,
they feel terrible
about themselves.
Pediatricians are telling
them, you're a bad parent,
you want your baby to die,
literally, things like that.
Then they come to see me.
And I say, relax,
let's talk about this,
let's spend a little time,
let's address the fears.
And they feel so
much better just
having someone who listens
to their point of view
and confirms their
point of view.
I'm not sure if
anything is actually
different in what's
going to happen to them.
They're going to encounter
the same bacteria.
They're going to
live the same life.
But they feel better
about themselves.
And they feel better
about their choices.
And that's where I
think mindset comes in.
When we live in fear, we
have traumatic experiences
from being in these situations.
That weakens the immune system.
And that in itself can
cause people to get sick.
But when their
confidence is built up
and they start to feel
like someone is listening
and they have an ally, someone
who's supporting their choices,
they start to gain confidence.
And they gain more
confidence in their choices.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Is there anything in closing
that you would like to share
about making choices for
our real innate immunity?
>> Well, the first thing is
to know that you can choose.
And no matter how or what
the doctors have told you
about your immune system,
autoimmune diseases,
or whatever, there
is always hope.
And there are always options.
When a doctor tells you,
there's nothing more I can do,
you know, I ran out of-- you
know, my tool box is empty,
look for another way.
Because there is
always an option.
I've traveled the world.
I've been blessed to travel
to over 70 countries.
And there's many options.
And so just realize that there
are opportunities for you.
You can choose.
It's important to
know, not believe.
We need to know
that we can heal.
>> Thank you.
I love that.
That's perfect.
>> Priscilla, I want to
share this book with you.
And may it bless you.
And may it inspire you
in your continuing work.
>> Thank you, doctor.
>> And may you share
it with the world.
>> I will.
Thank you very much.
>> Blessings.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If real immunity
is overcoming fear,
listening to our intuition, and
gaining all the information,
how do we make the leap to make
a choice and choose a path?
For me, I recognize the need
to overcome my own mind.
I tried EFT, Qigong, meditation.
And then I attended a
week-long meditation retreat
with Joe Dispenza.
There I learned just how
powerful our minds are.
Coming up, in "Choosing
Real Immunity,"
we'll take a look
at how consciousness
plays a huge role in our
health and in making choices.
[MUSIC PLAYING]